+++
title = "Release v0.3.0 delayed"
[taxonomies]
tags = ["beta", "release"]
[extra]
exclude_from_home = true
+++

I was initially expecting to release the game about this week or so, but it becomes clear that I
need another four weeks.

<!--more-->

A lot of work has been done already, like the new menus and 15 new maps. However, there's even more work ahead:

* I'm currently drawing lots of sprites to give maps visual diversity, because the 15 maps tend to blend with each other. This takes a lot of time since drawing is not my forte or passion.
* I want to add a Campaign Mode that gives the player a more streamlined experience.
* I'd also like to include a progression system with some basic money earning/spending.
* And finally, I want to improve the walkie-talkie buddy to better guide players through the game.

Why don't I release what I have now? Because I consider the jump to v0.3.0 a new beginning, a new
experience. I want players to check out the game and experience the whole thing together. I feel that doing incremental updates at this stage would attract players who
might abandon the game early on and not return for later updates. So I prefer to wait until I have something I believe can grab and keep attention.

But! You might be already following Unhaunter and want to keep up with every small update.
I understand and I appreciate that a lot! For people like you I have the Beta versions. Whenever I have
something new to show, I release a new beta version. I've been releasing several betas of v0.3.0,
so if you're interested you can check them out.

Where can you play it, you ask? Where can you download it?

[On our Beta Page - click here!](/beta)

