+++
title = "Unhaunter v0.2.1 released"
description = "Grab & Drop, Ghost events, Hiding, Haunted objects"
[taxonomies]
tags = ["release", "news"]
+++

We can now move elements of the house around with the new grab & drop function!
Ghost can now shut doors and flicker lights.
Also we can hide in closets and other places, and there are new haunted objects that
change ghost's behavior.

<!--more-->

**Features:**

* **Ghost Events:**
    * The ghost can now slam a door closed.
    * The ghost can also flicker lightly the lights of the room.
* **Hiding Mechanics:**
    * Player can now press `E` near tables, beds, and other objects to hide itself.
    * The ghost will be confused when hunting for the player.
    * The player will need to press `E` again to be able to move.
* **Grab & Drop Items:**
    * Players can now pick up light items with `F`
    * While carrying an item they're slower, they can drop the item with `G`
* **Object-Ghost Interaction System:** 
    * Introduced a new system that allows players to influence the ghost's 
      behavior by manipulating objects in the environment.
    * Objects are assigned hidden properties (`Attractive`, `Repulsive`) that
      affect how the ghost interacts with them.
    * The ghost's roaming behavior is now influenced by the proximity
      and charge levels of objects.
    * Players can provoke hunts by placing `Repulsive` objects near 
      the ghost's breach and by removing `Attractive` objects from the location.
    * Added visual glow effects to objects based on their properties
      and the active light source, revealing their influence on the ghost.

**Maps:**

* **Updated University map:**
    * As we now depend on having objects, it was time to get an update to the
      big university map to add all sorts of objects. It looks pretty cool!
* **New Tutorial: Glass House:**
    * A simple map where all walls are transparent so that it is easy to see, 
      and players can learn the ghost evidences at their own pace.

**Fixes:**

* **Lighting:** Improved lighting system and see in the dark.
* **Reduced difficulty:** With the new object interaction system it was becoming
  much more difficult as there's more need to explore, so sanity loss and ghost rage
  was reduced. Temperatures now update in a more aggressive way to simplify tracking
  the ghost as it now roams much more.

**Tools:**

* **Ghost Radio Tool:**  Added a console-based demo tool for testing and
  experimenting with simplified ghost communication.
