+++
title = "Unhaunter v0.2.2 released"
description = "Deploy Gear, Spatial Mono Sound"
[taxonomies]
tags = ["release", "news"]
+++

We can now deploy our gear to the ground! This will give Unhaunter new ways to play it.
There's also new sound effects, and a basic spatial mono sound
that controls volume over distance.

[Download Unhaunter v0.2.2 - Source code only](https://github.com/deavid/unhaunter/releases/tag/v0.2.2)

<!--more-->

**Features:**

* **Item Grab & Drop:** 
    * Items are now dropped to the center of the tile and it
      checks for other items to prevent dropping items in occupied tiles.
* **Deployable Gear:**
    * Players can now press `G` to drop the gear to the ground.
    * `F` will pick up the gear if there's space for it.
    * Gear continues to work while on the ground
* **New Sound effects:**
    * The ghost will snore, roar and more on different scenarios.
    * The player will hear a loud heardbeat when the health is low.
    * The backgroud music will fade out and be replaced by unsettling sounds
      when the sanity is low. 
* **Basic Spatial sound:**
    * Now the sounds will have a volume (not panning) depending on the distance.
    
**Fixes:**
  * Increased overall brightness of the game.
  * Ensure the torch iluminates the player itself.
  * Fix player sprite to follow flashlight ilumination.
  * Lower difficulty by making ghost a bit friendlier.
  * Now torches have occlusion too.
  * Prevent the ghost from re-hunting when the player re-enters location.

