+++
title = "Unhaunter v0.2.6 released"
description = "Miasma and EMI"
[taxonomies]
tags = ["release", "news"]
+++

A much faster lighting system and lots of other optimizations! Now it runs with a fraction of the CPU.
Looks similar but now it's much more efficient. A new fog (miasma) was added
mainly for adding more visual interest, and Electromagnetic interference when the ghost starts attacking.
Also the player now can sprint indefinitely outside, since it only gets out of breath when running over miasma.

[Download Unhaunter v0.2.6 - Source code only](https://github.com/deavid/unhaunter/releases/tag/v0.2.6)

<!--more-->

**Features:**

*   **Miasma System:** Introduced a dynamic miasma (fog) system that affects gameplay.
    The miasma's density and movement are simulated, and it interacts with the environment and player.
*   **Electromagnetic Interference (EMI):** Added a new mechanic where the ghost,
    particularly during its pre-hunt warning phase, emits electromagnetic interference.
    This affects electronic gear (Flashlight, EMF Meter, Recorder, Red Torch, Videocam), 
    causing glitches, malfunctions, and false readings. This adds a layer of challenge 
    and realism to using electronic equipment.
*   **Stamina System Integration:** The miasma now directly impacts the player's stamina.
    Higher miasma density in a location increases the rate at which stamina depletes while sprinting.
    This encourages players to avoid or quickly traverse miasma-filled areas.

**Changes:**

*   **Lighting System Refactoring:**
    * The lighting system has been significantly refactored for improved performance and organization.
    * Light propagation now uses a pre-baked data structure along with wave edges, allowing for dynamic light calculation with closed doors and windows.
    * The van's light is sampled by an offset to avoid darkening.

*   **Ghost Behavior:**
    * Ghost rage mechanics were refined, now considering player presence in the location overall.
    * Added a pre-hunt warning state for the ghost, including visual and auditory cues.

*   **Difficulty Adjustments:**
    * Updated hunt provocation radius values across different difficulty levels to improve game balance.

*   **Gear Adjustments:**
    * Added Electromagnetic interference to electronic gear.
