+++
title = "Unhaunter v0.2.7 released"
description = "The walkie-talkie buddy is on fire"
[taxonomies]
tags = ["release", "news"]
+++

Very proud of this release! The new walkie-talkie buddy aims to help new players (still in progress),
the new `[Ctrl]` key to manipulate left hand items, Mouse auto-hide, some basic spatial audio and
finally the press and hold mechanic for `End Mission` and `Craft Repellent` to avoid mistakes.

[Download Unhaunter v0.2.7 - Windows+Linux](https://github.com/deavid/unhaunter/releases/tag/v0.2.7)

<!--more-->

**Features:**

*   **Walkie Talkie Buddy:** Introduced an NPC companion who provides hints and commentary
  via walkie-talkie, primarily aimed at assisting players on easier difficulties. #94
    *   Includes UI text display accompanying the audio messages.
    *   Provides contextual messages for events like:
        *   starting a mission
        *   forgetting gear
        *   pre-hunt warnings
    *   Added more message variety and tuned activation conditions.
*   **Hold-to-Activate Truck Buttons :** Implemented a hold duration requirement for critical
  truck UI buttons (Craft Repellent, End Mission) to prevent accidental activation.
  Includes visual progress bar and audio feedback during the hold. #32
*   **Auto-Hiding Mouse Cursor:** The mouse cursor now automatically hides after a short
  period of inactivity during gameplay, enhancing immersion. #74
*   **Basic Spatial Audio:** Implemented initial spatial audio (volume-based positioning) 
  for sound effects, providing better directional awareness. #54
*   **Look at left hand:** `Left Control` now allows to focus and see the left hand gear,
  and set the evidence on the left hand. #27

**Changes:**

*   **Music volume:** Increased music volume, which allows for a very loud music at 100%. #92
*   **Snappier Camera:** Adjusted for a faster, snappier feel and improved responsiveness. #93
*   **WASM now allows for resizing:** Improved WASM CSS handling so in-browser gaming uses the full browser window. #63
  
**Fixes:**

*   **UI:** Corrected visibility issues with the in-game control key legend.
*   **Gear - Recorder:** Removed an experimental false reading mechanic that could be confusing.
*   **Spirit Box:** Limited the effective range of the Spirit Box to require closer proximity to the ghost. #68
*   **Replaced duplicate ghosts:** Domovoi and Wisp were duplicates so they have been renamed to new unique ghosts. #87
  
**Other:**

*   **Tools:** Added an internal `ghost_list` developer tool for viewing ghost/evidence statistics. #86
*   **Kokoro TTS:** Added notes and setup instructions for Text-to-Speech tooling experimentation.
*   **Documentation:** Updated README and internal developer notes. #37
*   **Wiki:** Added the basis for the wiki on GitHub with pages for evidence, ghosts, etc. #38 #40
